# Getting Started #

This chapter will be about getting started with Git.  We will begin at the
beginning by explaining some background on version control tools, then move on
to how to get Git running on your system and finally how to get it setup to
start working with.  At the end of this chapter you should understand why Git
is around, why you should use it and you should be all setup to do so.

## About Version Control ##

What is version control, and why should you care? Version control is a system
that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can
recall specific versions later. For the examples in this book you will use
software source code as the files being version controlled, though in reality
you can do this with nearly any type of file on a computer.


### Local Version Control Systems ###

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another
directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory, if they’re clever). This approach
is very common because it is so simple, but it is also incredibly error prone.
It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the
wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.

To deal with this issue, programmers long ago developed local VCSs that had a
simple database that kept all the changes to files under revision control (see
Figure 1-1).

![Local version control diagram](../figures/1.1.png)

### Local Version Control Systems ###

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another
directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory, if they’re clever). This approach
is very common because it is so simple, but it is also incredibly error prone.
It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the
wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.

To deal with this issue, programmers long ago developed local VCSs that had a
simple database that kept all the changes to files under revision control (see
Figure 1-1).

![Local version control diagram](../figures/1.2.png)

## A Short History of Git ##

What is version control, and why should you care? Version control is a system
that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can
recall specific versions later. For the examples in this book you will use
software source code as the files being version controlled, though in reality
you can do this with nearly any type of file on a computer.


### Local Version Control Systems ###

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another
directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory, if they’re clever). This approach
is very common because it is so simple, but it is also incredibly error prone.
It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the
wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.

To deal with this issue, programmers long ago developed local VCSs that had a
simple database that kept all the changes to files under revision control (see
Figure 1-1).

![Local version control diagram](../figures/1.3.png)

### Local Version Control Systems ###

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another
directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory, if they’re clever). This approach
is very common because it is so simple, but it is also incredibly error prone.
It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the
wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.

To deal with this issue, programmers long ago developed local VCSs that had a
simple database that kept all the changes to files under revision control (see
Figure 1-1).

![Local version control diagram](../figures/1.4.png)
